Pizza Dough: Makes enough dough for two 10-12 inch pizzas 1 1/2 cups (355 ml) warm water (105°F-115°F) 1 package (2 1/4 teaspoons) active dry yeast 3 3/4 cups (490 g) bread flour 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil (omit if cooking pizza in a wood-fired pizza oven) 2 teaspoons salt 1 teaspoon sugar Pizza Ingredients and Topping Options Extra virgin olive oil Cornmeal (to help slide the pizza onto the pizza stone) Tomato sauce (smooth or pureed) Firm mozzarella cheese, grated Fresh soft mozzarella cheese, separated into small clumps Fontina cheese, grated Parmesan cheese, grated Feta cheese, crumbled Mushrooms, very thinly sliced if raw, otherwise first sautéed Bell peppers, stems and seeds removed, very thinly sliced Italian pepperoncini, thinly sliced Italian sausage, cooked ahead and crumbled Sliced black olives Chopped fresh basil Baby arugula, tossed in a little olive oil, added as pizza comes out of the oven Pesto Pepperoni, thinly sliced Onions, thinly sliced raw or caramelized Ham, thinly sliced



Preheat pizza stone (or pizza pan or baking sheet): Place a pizza stone on a rack in the lower third of your oven. Preheat the oven to 475°F for at least 30 minutes, preferably an hour. If you don't have a pizza stone, you can use a pizza pan or a thick baking sheet; you need something that will not warp at high temperatures. Divide the dough into two balls: Remove the plastic cover from the dough. Dust your hands with flour and push the dough down so it deflates a bit. Divide the dough in half.
Prepare your desired toppings. Note that you are not going to want to load up each pizza with a lot of toppings as the crust will end up not crisp that way. About a third a cup each of tomato sauce and cheese would be sufficient for one pizza. One to two mushrooms thinly sliced will cover a pizza.